<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IX: Fights for Rights</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fights for Rights</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The fine, cool, and sunshiny days of fall was making a last stand⁠—rains begin to come, and as time was a crawling towards early winter, them rains got colder and then turned to a wet snow. Mud was where dust had been, the hard-twist throw ropes had turned stiff as steel cables, saddles and saddle blankets was wet, heavy, and cold, and the shivering ponies met the feel of them with a hump and a buck.</p>
			<p>The cowboys, all a packing long, yellow slickers, was beginning to tally up on how much wages would be due ’em. As the end of the fall roundup drawed near, and as they waded thru slush and mud from the chuck wagon to the rope corral, not many was caring. Wet socks, damp beds, two hours of shivering on night guard, saddling ornery ponies in daytime and when a feller can’t even get a footing, and then riding ’em a wondering if them ponies will stand up as they beller and buck on the slick and muddy ground, all left a hankering only for a warm dugout somewheres, where there’s a stove, a bunk to set on, and a few magazines to read as mother nature does her best to make the outside miserable.</p>
			<p>The last of the beef herd had been turned over to another “wagon” of the Rocking R and shipped, and Jeff’s main herd was from then on made up of cows with big weaner calves, and all stock that’d need feeding thru the winter.</p>
			<p>“A couple of weeks more now and we’ll be seeing the gates of the home ranch,” says Jeff one day, but it was a long three weeks before the stock was tended to and when camp was made for the last time. The wet snow had got flaky and dry by then and six inches of it was covering the ground.</p>
			<p>“Now hold on a minute, Smoky, and give a feller a chance, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>It was Clint a talking, and trying to hold Smoky down till he got his foot in the stirrup. The cowboy being all bundled up couldn’t handle himself as he’d like to; the little horse was cold; crusted snow had to be rubbed off his back before the saddle could be put on and he was aching to put his head down and go to bucking so he could warm up.</p>
			<p>Clint was only halfways in the saddle when that pony lit into it, but the cowboy didn’t mind that. His blood was also a long ways from the boiling point and any excuse to get circulating good was welcome.</p>
			<p>Around and around him Smoky went and all in one spot. All the fancy twists of a bucking pony was gone over and the rider met him all the way, and as Clint rode and fanned and laughed, he’d get fast glimpses of other riders and other horses a tearing up the white landscape and getting down to the earth underneath.</p>
			<p>It was the last day of the roundup, all the work was done, the cook climbed on his seat, grabbed the lines the boys handed him, and letting out a war whoop, scared his already spooky team into a long lope towards the home ranch.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The sight of the big gates was a mighty fine one to all as the outfit clattered in, specially with the sky a threatening the way it was; the old cowhorses had their ears pointed towards the big pole corrals. They knowed what the sight of them meant at that time of the year and none tried to break away as the wrangler run ’em in. They was turned out in a big pasture that night, and the next days a couple of riders came, bunched ’em up, and took ’em thru another gate leading out of the ranch.</p>
			<p>Clint had took it onto hisself to be one of them riders⁠—he wanted to get another look at Smoky before letting him go to the winter range and find out for sure just what conditions that range would be in. The outskirts of it was reached that noon and as Clint rode along back of the remuda he was more than satisfied to notice the tall feed that the six inches of snow couldn’t hide. He noticed the breaks and the shelter they would give, then the thick growth of willows along the creek bottom and which meant more shelter.</p>
			<p>Clint stopped his horse and the two hundred ponies was left to scatter. His eyes run over the well known backs for a last time, he wouldn’t be seeing them again till spring roundup started and he watched ’em slowly graze away. Many was in that bunch that he’d broke and named, and starting from the meanest fighting bronc of the rough string, and taking all the ponies on up to the best cowhorse of the foreman’s string there wasn’t one that Clint didn’t know and know mighty well as to tricks and good or bad points.</p>
			<p>A big old sorrel with a kinked neck and by the name of Boar Hound caught his eye, and Clint remembered how that pony tried to commit suicide rather than be rode and how he’d now changed to wanting to commit murder instead and kill a few cowboys. Then a smile spread over his face as he spotted a tall Roman-nosed gruller who’d never made a jump till a rope got under his tail. He’d took a sudden liking to bucking from then on and made hisself a reputation at that which scattered over four counties.</p>
			<p>Every horse Clint looked at brought to memory some kind of a story, and there was a variety of expressions which changed with every horse that came under his eye. A big shaggy black looked his way and snorted and with the sight of him Clint remembered how that horse had reached ahead one time and kicked to pieces a cowboy that’d been unsaddling him.</p>
			<p>His expression was mighty solemn at the thought of that, but it didn’t last long. Like a ray of sunshine, something shot out and scattered that dark cloud of memories four ways⁠—Smoky had showed himself from behind other horses and not over fifty feet from where Clint was setting on his horse.</p>
			<p>The cowboy’s face lit up with a smile at the sight of the pony, and getting down off his saddle he made tracks his way, but he didn’t have to go all the way, for soon as Smoky spotted him he left Pecos, his running pardner, behind, and nickering came to meet Clint.</p>
			<p>“A feller would think to see you act that you’re a sure enough sugar eater,” Clint remarked as the little horse came up to him and stopped. He rubbed a hand on the pony’s head and went on.</p>
			<p>“Well, anyway, Smoky, I’m glad to see that you’ve got a mighty fine winter range to run on; with all the feed I see here and the shelter that’s with it you hadn’t ought to lose an ounce of fat,” Clint felt for the pony’s ribs and grinning resumed, “and if you ever get any fatter than you are now you’ll be plum worthless.”</p>
			<p>Smoky followed Clint as he turned and went to where he’d left his horse, “I wonder,” says that cowboy, “if you’ve got the hunch that you won’t be seeing me no more till next spring?⁠—That’s a long time ain’t it? But never mind old horse, I’m the first cowboy you’re going to see when spring does break up.”</p>
			<p>Clint was about to get on his horse and ride away, but he stopped, and felt of Smoky’s hide once more.</p>
			<p>“Well, so long, Smoky, take care of yourself and don’t let anything drag you down.”</p>
			<p>Smoky watched him ride away and nickered once as the cowboy went over the point of a ridge and disappeared. He watched a long time even after that and till he was sure Clint was gone, and finally turning went to grazing back till he was by the side of Pecos again.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The winter came and hit the range with the average amount of snow, freeze ups, and cold winds. The cayotes howled the hunger they felt, for there was no weak stock to speak of for them to feed off of, and outside of small varmints they could get once in a while, pickings was mighty poor. Horses and cattle was and stayed in fine shape; and the stockman could hit his bed after the long day’s ride knowing that he could go to sleep right off, and not lay awake a wondering what he could do to pull his stock thru.</p>
			<p>Smoky met all what the weather had to hand him, with a good layer of fat, a thick skin, and a long coat of hair. He lost a few ounces but he could of spared many pounds and felt as good. Feed was a plenty and the little pawing that had to be done to reach it was like so much exercise and only kept his blood in good circulating order.</p>
			<p>The winter months wore on, the ponies drifted from ridge to ridge, from shelter to shelter, and nothing much came to disturb the quiet of the land, nothing much excepting when a big shaggy black tried to throw in with Pecos, the same black that’d kicked the cowboy over the Great Divide. But his interfering and butting in was welcome tho in a way. Smoky and Pecos had so much good energy going to waste that they’d been just aching for some excuse to use some of it for some good.</p>
			<p>It came about that the big black had took a liking to Pecos, and at the same time a dislike for Smoky. Pecos was neutral for a while and wondered what the black was up to when he tried to chase Smoky away from him. Smoky wouldn’t chase worth a nickel but he was getting skinned up considerable a trying to hold his ground. Things went on that way for a day or so and every once in a while the black made a dive for Smoky like he was going to tear him to pieces.⁠—His intentions was good, but Smoky sure was no invalid. When the snow settled again where he’d held his ground the little horse hadn’t give away one inch.</p>
			<p>But the black was twice as old as Smoky, more up to the game of fighting, and heavier by a hundred pounds. All that begin to tell on the mouse colored hide, and there might of come a time when Smoky would of had to hightail it, only, as the scraps was repeated off and on, Pecos begin to notice and realize that that black was taking too much territory, and he didn’t like him nohow.</p>
			<p>So, that’s how come, that when the black put down his ears and made another grand tearing rush for Smoky, that something struck him from the off side and upset him and his plans of attack all to pieces. He found hisself jerked off his feet and rolled plum over the top of Smoky and he lit head first on the other side. When he picked himself up out of the snow his spirits was dampened some in wonder, and more so when he shook his head and was able to see and noticed that there was two mighty vicious looking ponies a waiting for him to come again. He shook his head once more at that, and as Smoky and Pecos bowed their necks and came his way the black turned tail and started a looking for other company and which would appreciate him more.</p>
			<p>But whether it was orneriness or just plain thick headedness, the black tried to butt in again the next day; maybe he just wasn’t convinced. Anyway, Pecos noticed him first and before the black could even get to Smoky. War was started right there, but Pecos was no match for the black and even tho he wasn’t for quitting, the worst of the battle was on his side. It was about when the crusted snow was flying the thickest that Smoky, who’d been off a ways, noticed the commotion. He seen his pardner down on his knees and the black a chewing away on him, and right about then the standing Smoky was transformed into a eleven hundred pound bombshell. The explosion came as he connected with the black and then black fur begin to fly and soar up above.⁠—Somehow or other the black managed to gather enough of his scattered senses to know what had happened; them senses told him to act, and act quick, and he did. He tore himself away from the pressing, tearing mixture of flying hoofs and sharp teeth and split the breeze making far apart tracks to where horseflesh wasn’t so thick.</p>
			<p>The next day he was seen with Boar Hound, the kinked-necked sorrel, the Roman-nosed gruller, and a few more ornery ponies of the “rough string.” A company bunch more fitting to his kind.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The days was getting longer and warmer, the snow begin packing and melting some, and pretty soon bare patches of ground showed in plain sight. Smoky and Pecos’ hides begin a itching and the two was often busy a scratching one another and starting from the neck went to the withers along the backbone to the rump and back again. Big bunches of long winter hair begin a slipping and falling to the ground as they scratched, and came a time when as they rolled, more of that hair was left till finally patches of short slick satin-like hair begin to show.</p>
			<p>Then green and tender grass begin to loom up and plentiful, and that finished the work of ridding the ponies hides of all the long hair that was left. Creeks was swelling from the waters of the fast melting snows, spring had come and the sunshine and warm winds that came with it was doing its work.</p>
			<p>The roundup cook was once again scrubbing on the chuck box that was on the end of the long wagon, and the cowboys, one by one begin a drifting in from parts near and far anxious to be starting on the spring works again. Some came from the different cow camps of the Rocking R range, a few of the riders that’d been let go when work was done the fall before never showed up, but others rode in and after a few words with Jeff took the places of them that was missing.</p>
			<p>Clint had wintered at one of the outfit’s camps and drawed his wages regular, and when the range land begin to get bare of snow and the watching out for weak stock was no more necessary he put his bed on one horse, his saddle on another, and headed for the home ranch. He was one of the first riders to reach that place, and when the horse roundup started he was one of the first to have his horse saddled, topped off, and lined out to sashay in all of the ponies that could be found on the horse range.</p>
			<p>Smoky had been feeding on the sunny side of a butte, and for no reason other than to be looking around he raised his head; only his ears and eyes showed as he looked over the top of that butte; but that was enough for him to see a rider coming his direction, and see him before that rider ever had a hunch any horses was around anywheres near.</p>
			<p>Smoky snorted and hightailed it down the side of the butte to where Pecos and a few other ponies had also been feeding, and the way he acted left no doubt in their minds but what they should be on the move. They all was at full speed the minute he landed amongst ’em, and when the rider topped the butte where they’d been a few minutes before, they had the lead on him by near a mile.</p>
			<p>But the ponies wasn’t wanting to get away near as much as might of been thought. It was only that Smoky had got spooked up at the sudden sight of the rider, and him and all the others feeling good as they did wasn’t needing much excuse. The cowboy fogged down on ’em and a little to one side so as to turn ’em. They turned easy enough even tho the rider was a long ways behind, and making a big circle that rider finally had ’em headed towards the big corrals of the home ranch.</p>
			<p>A big grin spread over the cowboy’s features as the sun shined on the slick back of the mouse colored horse at the lead of the bunch, and even tho there was a half a mile between him and that horse, <em>that cowboy</em> knowed daggone well it was <em>him</em>, for the sun never reflected on no other horse’s hide as well as it did on Smoky’s, and besides, there was no mistaking the good feeling action of that pony’s.</p>
			<p>“Told you I’d be the first to see you when spring broke up,” says the cowboy as he held his horse down to a lope.</p>
			<p>The twenty-five mile run from the time Smoky had been spotted kinda filled the bill far as running was concerned, and when the long wings of the pole corrals at the home ranch was reached the rider was right on the ponies’ tails and on the job to keep ’em going straight ahead into the corral;⁠—then the big gate closed in on ’em.</p>
			<p>“Guess you don’t know me no more,” says Clint to Smoky as he stood afoot in the corral and watched the pony tear around;⁠—then to hisself:</p>
			<p>“Maybe he don’t know it’s <em>me</em> that’s watching him.”</p>
			<p>Clint was right, the long winter months of freedom without seeing one human had kind of let him get back to his natural wild instinct, and the first sight of Clint had been of just a human, and it’d spooked him up till he’d have to calm down some before it’d come to him just <em>who</em> that human was.</p>
			<p>The cowboy spoke to him as Smoky, wild eyed, snorted and hunted for a hole, but Clint kept a speaking, and as the pony tore around and heard the voice, something gradually came to him that seemed far away and near forgot. He stopped a couple of times to look at the cowboy, and each time his getting away was less rushing, till, as the voice kept a being heard, things got clearer and clearer in that pony’s brain.</p>
			<p>Smoky had stopped once more, and neck bowed, ears straight ahead, and eyes a sparkling, faced acrost the corral to where the cowboy, still and standing, was talking to him.</p>
			<p>“Daggone your little hide,” says Clint, “are we going to have to get acquainted all over again?⁠—come on over here and let me run my hand over that knowledge bump of yours, and maybe I can get your think tank to functioning right again.”</p>
			<p>Smoky didn’t come, but he held his ground and listened to the talk. Clint talked on and watched him till the horse lost some of his wild look and then slow and easy started walking his way. Something and away in the past seemed to hold Smoky as the cowboy slowly came nearer and nearer. His instinct was all for him a leaving the spot he was holding, but that something which stuck in his memory was the stronger and sort of kept him there.</p>
			<p>Clint came on a few steps at the time, and then stopped, and talking the while, took his time till he was within a few feet of Smoky. A little flaw of any kind right then in that human’s actions could of spoilt things easy and sent the pony a skeedaddling away from there in a hurry; but Clint knowed horses and specially Smoky too well to do anything of the kind. He knowed just what was going on between that pony’s ears, and how to agree with all that mixed in there.</p>
			<p>Finally, Clint got to where by reaching out he could near of touched Smoky. Slow and easy the cowboy raised a hand and held it to within a few inches of the pony’s nose, Smoky looked at it and snorted, but pretty soon he stretched his neck and mighty careful took a sniff of the human paw. He snorted again and jerked his head away from it, but it wasn’t long when he took another sniff, then another and another, and each time the snort growed less to be heard, till at last, Smoky even allowed that paw to touch his nostrils, the fingers rubbed there easy for a spell and gradually went on a rubbing along his nose along on up to between his eyes and pretty soon between his ears to that knowledge bump. Five minutes afterwards Smoky was following the grinning cowboy all around the corral.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The roundup wagons, all cleaned and loaded, was ready to pull out, the remuda was all accounted for and each string pointed out to each rider, and Jeff giving the whole outfit another look over waved a hand, the pilot reined his horse into a bucking start, all took up his lead and thru the big gates of the home ranch, wagons, riders, remuda, and all lined out. The spring roundup had started.</p>
			<p>Smoky broke the record for learning that year, and when the fall roundup was over and the saddle was pulled off him for the last time before being turned out on the winter range, there was two little white spots of white hair showed on each side of his withers and about the size of a dollar⁠—saddle marks they was, and like medals for the good work he’d done. There was a knowing spark in his eyes for the critter too, for the little horse had got to savvy the cow near as well as the old cowhorses that’d been in the same remuda that year.</p>
			<p>There was only one thing that could of been held against the good record of that pony, and that was his bucking;⁠—he just had to have his little buck out every morning, and sometimes he bucked harder than other times⁠—that all depended on how cold the weather was⁠—but Clint didn’t seem to mind that at all. If anything he tried to preserve that bucking streak in the pony, and he was often heard to remark:</p>
			<p>“A horse ain’t worth much unless that shows up some.”</p>
			<p>But Clint had other reasons for keeping the “buck” in Smoky’s backbone.⁠—Old Tom Jarvis, superintendent and part owner of the Rocking R, had joined the wagon for a few days that summer and wanted to see his cowboys work his cattle for a spell. Him being an old cowman, and from away back before cattle wore short horns, made all the working of a herd all the more interesting and to be criticized one way or the other. He was present steady on the cutting grounds, and so was Smoky one day.</p>
			<p>Clint felt that the eyes of Old Tom was on Smoky the minute he rode him to the edge of the herd, and an uneasy feeling crawled up his backbone as he noticed that that Old Grizzly seemed to’ve lost his eyesight for anything else but his Smoky horse. Clint knowed Old Tom’s failing for a good horse, and he’d heard of how many a time that same failing had come near putting the cowman in jail for appropriating some horse he couldn’t buy;⁠—of course them times was past, but the failing was still in the old man’s chest, and <em>Smoky belonged to him</em>.</p>
			<p>The cowboy had started Smoky to cutting out, a work where all the good points of a cowhorse have a chance to show up, and Smoky sure wasn’t hiding any. Old Tom’s eyes was near popping out of his head as he watched the mouse colored gelding work, and finally, as Clint noticed all the interest, he figgered it a good idea to get out of the herd and hide Smoky somewheres before the old cowman came to him and suggested swapping horses. The cowboy was afraid he’d already showed too much of that horse, and as he come out of the herd he made a circle and took his stand away on the opposite side from where Old Tom was holding.</p>
			<p>But Old Tom was controlling owner of that outfit and he could be any place he wanted to on that range any time. A steer broke out, Old Tom took after him, circled him around the herd, and when he put him back in and brought his horse to a standstill, there was only a short distance between him and the horse he’d had his eye on.</p>
			<p>Clint was scared and he cussed a little. He tried to keep Smoky down whenever a critter broke out that needed turning, and even tried to let a couple of ’em get away, but he couldn’t do it without making it too plain to see, and besides, Smoky had ideas of his own about handling them critters.</p>
			<p>The cowboy was worried all the rest of the day and lost some sleep that night a wondering how he was going to dodge Old Tom. He knowed the old cowman would be around with some proposition to swap him out of Smoky, and that was one of the last things the cowboy would do. There wasn’t a horse in the outfit or anywheres else he’d trade Smoky for.</p>
			<p>It’s took for granted on any real cow outfit that whenever a horse is swapped or borrowed out of a cowboy’s string and handed to somebody else, that that cowboy is requested to quit or be fired, in other words it’s an insult that makes any real cowboy want to scrap and then ask for his wages.</p>
			<p>Clint was a valuable man to the outfit, but with Old Tom one cowboy more or less didn’t matter, that is if that cowboy stood between him and a horse he wanted. He walked up to Clint the next day and not hesitating any he says:</p>
			<p>“I’m going to try that mouse colored horse you was riding yesterday”; and thinking it’d please Clint to hear, he went on, “and if I like him I’ll trade you my brown horse Chico for him; he’s the best horse I got at the home ranch.”</p>
			<p>But all that only made Clint get red in the face, and fire showed in his eyes as he spoke.</p>
			<p>“Huh! you can’t ride Smoky.”</p>
			<p>“Why in samhill can’t I?” asks Old Tom, also getting red in the face.</p>
			<p>“Cause you can’t,” answers Clint, “why you couldn’t even put a saddle on him.”</p>
			<p>Clint was for quitting the outfit right there and hit for some other country, but the thought of leaving Smoky behind kinda put him to figgering another way out;⁠—if he could get Old Tom sort of peeved and let him handle Smoky while he was feeling that way, most likely that pony would do the rest.</p>
			<p>“I’ll show you whether I can saddle that horse or not,” says Old Tom, frothing at the mouth; “why I’ve handled and rode broncs that you couldn’t get in the same corral with, and before you even was born.”</p>
			<p>“Yep,” says Clint, grinning sarcastic, “that was too long ago, and you’re too daggoned old now for that kind of a horse.”</p>
			<p>Old Tom glared at Clint for a second, and not finding no ready come back done the next best thing and got busy. He went to his saddle, jerked his rope off it, and spitting fire, shook out a loop that could be heard a whistling plum to the other side of the corral.</p>
			<p>Smoky was surprised into a dozen catfits as that same wicked loop settled over his head and drawed tight and sudden around his neck. He bellered and bucked thru the remuda a dragging Old Tom with him. The old cowman made a motion and two grinning cowboys went and helped him.</p>
			<p>Clint stood on the outside and watched the performance. He rolled cigarette after cigarette and tore ’em up fast as they was made, not a one was lit. He seen Smoky brought to a choking standstill and that cowboy felt like committing murder as he noticed the fear in that pony’s eyes as he faced the strangers; but there Clint noticed something else and which he gradually recognized as <em>fight</em>⁠—there was more fight than fear, and at the sight of that the cowboy took hope.</p>
			<p>“Since when does a cowboy get help to rope and saddle his horse,” he hollered as Old Tom was sizing up Smoky. “Pretty soon you’ll be wanting one of us to top him off for you.”</p>
			<p>It worked just right, and Old Tom’s answer was only a jerk on the rope that held Smoky. The old cowman knowed better than to handle a horse that way and as a rule was always easy with ’em, but he was mad, mad clear thru, and rather than shoot a cowboy he was taking it out on the horse.</p>
			<p>And Smoky by that time was fast catching up with the spirit of all that went on. He was like a raw bronc that’d never seen a human or a saddle, and when he was finally brought up alongside the saddle, there was all about him to show he wasn’t safe for anybody coming near. But Old Tom, even tho it was a long time ago, had handled many mean horses;⁠—he knowed he was past handling ’em any more, but this time was different and he’d do his best to carry it thru.</p>
			<p>The two riders that’d been helping him was waved away; he’d show Clint and the rest of the young fellers that he could still do it. He then spread a loop and caught both of Smoky’s threatening front feet; Smoky knowed better than to fight a rope and he stood still knowing he’d soon have another chance. Rawhide hobbles was fastened on his front legs, a bridle put on his head, and then the saddle was reached for and put on his back and cinched to stay.</p>
			<p>“Better say your prayers before you climb up,” says Clint, still prodding Old Tom, at the same time hoping that he would stop before he went too far. But there was no stopping him, he pulled up his chap’ belt, set his hat down tight, and still mad enough to bite a nail in two, loosened the hobbles, grabbed a short holt on the reins and climbed on.</p>
			<p>Smoky looked back at the stranger that was a setting on him, and soon as a touch of the rein on his neck told him that all was set, things started a happening from there. He bowed his head, made two jumps, and was just getting started good when he felt the saddle was empty;⁠—he made a few more jumps just for good measure, and then stopped.</p>
			<p>Clint was grinning from ear to ear as he walked up to Smoky and put his hand on his neck.</p>
			<p>“Good work, old boy,” he says⁠—and then turning to Old Tom, who was picking himself up: “Want to try again?”</p>
			<p>“You bet your doggone life I do,” says that old cowboy.</p>
			<p>“All right,” answers Clint, getting peeved some more. “Go ahead and break your fool neck, there’s plenty of buffalo wallows around here we can bury you in.”</p>
			<p>Old Tom walked over and jerked the reins out of Clint’s hands and started to get in the saddle again, but he didn’t even get well in it that time⁠—Smoky bowed his head and went out from under him, leaving Old Tom come down on the other side.</p>
			<p>It was as the old man was about to try Smoky once more when Jeff Nicks interfered, and told his boss how he’d rather not have him try that horse any more.</p>
			<p>“That horse bucks every time he’s rode,” says Jeff.</p>
			<p>Old Tom knowed he’d come to the end of his string but that didn’t ease his feelings any, and he was looking for some way of letting some of them feelings out before they choked him. When he spots Clint a standing to one side and by Smoky.</p>
			<p>“You’re fired,” he hollered, pointing a finger at him, “I’ll get somebody to take the buck out of that horse, and the sooner you’re off this range the better I’ll like it.”</p>
			<p>Clint just grinned at Old Tom, which made him all the madder, and about then Jeff spoke:</p>
			<p>“I’m doing the hiring and firing on this outfit, Tom, and as long as I’m working for you I’ll keep on a doing it.”</p>
			<p>Old Tom turned on him like a wild cat. “Fine!” he hollered, “you can go too.”</p>
			<p>The old cowman had went as far as he could, and as he walked away to catch himself another saddle horse, he had a hunch that he’d also went further than he should; that hunch got stronger as he went on saddling, and as he gave the latigo a last yank, it all developed into plain common sense that he’d sure enough went too far.</p>
			<p>But Old Tom wasn’t for giving in, not right then anyway. He got on his horse and riding close enough so Jeff could hear, says:</p>
			<p>“You and Clint can come to the ranch and I’ll have your time ready for you,” and then to another rider⁠—“you handle the outfit till I send out another foreman.”</p>
			<p>A lot of orneriness was scattered to the winds as Old Tom covered the long fifty miles back to the ranch, and as he opened the big gate leading in, a brand new feeling had come over him⁠—he was for catching a fresh horse the next morning early and hightailing it back to the wagon to sort of smooth things over best as he could.</p>
			<p>He unsaddled and turned his horse loose, and was mighty surprised as he came up to the big ranch house to find both Jeff and Clint already there and waiting for him. Not a hint of the good resolutions he’d made showed as he walked up to ’em, and after some kind of a “howdy,” Old Tom heard Jeff say:</p>
			<p>“All the boys sent word in by me, that as long as you’re making out my check you’d just as well make theirs out too. I’m sorry for that,” went on Jeff, “and I tried to talk ’em out of it, but it’s no use, they’re all for quitting if I go.”</p>
			<p>The old cowman never said a word as he led Jeff and Clint in the big house. He walked to a big table in the center of the living room and there he turned on his two riders. A smile was on his face and he says:</p>
			<p>“Daggone it, Jeff, I’m glad to hear that.” Then Old Tom, still pleasant, but serious, went on, “for no man does his best work unless he’s doing it with somebody he likes and has confidence in. Yes,” he repeated, “I’m glad to hear that, but the question is now, you’re fired and free to go, ain’t you?” he asks.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” says Jeff, “soon as I get paid off.”</p>
			<p>“Well, how’s chances of hiring you over again? I can’t afford to let a foreman like you go, Jeff.”</p>
			<p>Jeff seemed to figger a while and then looked at Clint, and Old Tom guessing what was on his foreman’s mind, went on “and of course, being that I have no say in the hiring and firing of your riders, Clint wasn’t fired at all, and he can keep on riding for you.”</p>
			<p>Finally hands was shook all around, and as Jeff and Clint started back for the wagon the next morning Old Tom was on hand to see ’em go.</p>
			<p>“And don’t worry about that doggone mouse colored horse of yours, Clint,” he says as him and Jeff rode away, “I’ll never want him.”</p>
			<p>The riders reached the big gate leading out the ranch, and there Jeff remarked as he got off his horse to open it:</p>
			<p>“I guess Old Tom didn’t have to say that he was sorry.”</p>
			<p>And Clint more than agreed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
